Add query insights blog (#3398)
opensearch-project/project-website: _posts/2024-10-17-query-insights.md

   - kolchfa
date: 2024-10-17 
categories:
  - technical-posts
meta_keywords: opensearch query insights, search performance, query optimization, search analytics, resource monitoring, latency analysis, cpu usage, memory consumption, troubleshooting, search visibility, metrics, dashboards
meta_description: Gain deeper visibility into search query performance with OpenSearch Query Insights. This tool helps identify bottlenecks, optimize resources, and troubleshoot issues by providing detailed insights into query execution, latency, CPU/memory usage, and more. Enhance your search analytics and deliver a better user experience.
---

In the world of search and analytics, performance is everything. As an engineer, you need to ensure that your search queries are not only fast but also resource-efficient. However, understanding what’s happening under the hood of your search operations can be challenging. That’s where OpenSearch’s new feature, Query Insights, comes into play. This tool is designed to give you deeper visibility into the performance of your search queries, helping you identify bottlenecks, optimize performance, and ultimately, provide a better experience for your users.

> 

Author: Reworded.

### Key features of Query Insights

1. **Top-N queries:** One of the most sought-after features is the ability to identify the top queries by latency, CPU usage, or memory consumption. This feature allows you to focus on optimizing the queries that have the most significant impact on your system’s performance.
2. **Detailed Query Metadata:** Each query record includes essential information such as timestamps, source, involved indexes, node ID, and task-level resource usage. This data is crucial for understanding the context of each query and making informed decisions about optimizations.
3. **Query Exporter:** The Query Insights framework includes an exporter that allows you to save query performance data to local indexes or a data lake. This historical data can be invaluable for investigating past performance issues, such as CPU spikes or node drops.
4. **Upcoming Dashboard Integration:** An upcoming feature is the Query Insights dashboard, which will offer a visual representation of the top queries and their performance metrics. This dashboard will make it even easier to monitor and analyze query performance over time.

> 

Author: I think it's fine as written.

> 

Author: Changed to "the timestamp"

**Steps**:

1. **Enable top N query monitoring by latency**:
  ```json
  PUT _cluster/settings
  {
    "persistent" : {
      "search.insights.top_queries.latency.enabled" : true
    }
  }
  ```
1. **Set the monitoring window size to 1 hour**:
  ```json
  PUT _cluster/settings
  {
    "persistent" : {
      "search.insights.top_queries.latency.window_size" : "60m"
    }
  }
  ```
1. **Set N to track the top 5 queries by latency**:
  ```json
  PUT _cluster/settings
  {
    "persistent" : {
      "search.insights.top_queries.latency.top_n_size" : 5
    }
  }
  ```
1. **Retrieve the top N queries by latency**:
  ```json
  GET /_insights/top_queries?type=latency
  ```

The response provides a list of the 5 slowest queries executed in the last hour, allowing you to investigate further.

### Example 3: Group similar queries for better analysis (top N queries by similarity)

**Scenario**: A single query is executed multiple times with small variations, preventing other resource-heavy queries from appearing in the top N query list. You want to group similar queries based on their structure.

> **Steps**:

Author: ```suggestion

**Steps**:
```

---
layout: post
title: "Gain deeper insights with OpenSearch Query Insights" 
authors:
   - chenyang
   - kolchfa

> date: 2024-10-17 

Reviewer: Update publish date to today - 2024-10-31

> date: 2024-10-17 

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2024-10-31
```

categories:
  - technical-posts

> meta_keywords: opensearch query insights, search performance, query optimization, search analytics, resource monitoring, latency analysis, cpu usage, memory consumption, troubleshooting, search visibility, metrics, dashboards

Author: ```suggestion
meta_keywords: OpenSearch query insights, search performance, query optimization, query latency, search analytics, resource monitoring
```

> meta_description: Gain deeper visibility into search query performance with OpenSearch Query Insights. This tool helps identify bottlenecks, optimize resources, and troubleshoot issues by providing detailed insights into query execution, latency, CPU/memory usage, and more. Enhance your search analytics and deliver a better user experience.

Author: ```suggestion
meta_description: The query insights feature in OpenSearch gives you visibility into search performance, enabling you to identify bottlenecks, optimize resources, and enhance troubleshooting to deliver a better search experience for users.
```

> ---

Reviewer: Please update the meta with: 

**_meta_keywords:_** OpenSearch query insights, search performance, query optimization, query latency, search analytics, resource monitoring

_**meta_description:**_ The query insights feature in OpenSearch gives you visibility into search performance, enabling you to identify bottlenecks, optimize resources, and enhance troubleshooting to deliver a better search experience for users.

Understanding the performance of your search queries is critical for maintaining a responsive and efficient search platform. With Query Insights, you can quickly identify the top queries that are consuming the most CPU or memory or are exhibiting high latency. This allows you to focus your optimization efforts where they are needed most. By using Query Insights, you can:

* **Identify performance bottlenecks:** Easily spot queries that are slowing down your system, whether due to high resource usage or inefficient execution.
* **Optimize resource allocation:** Gain insights into how resources are being utilized, enabling you to make informed decisions about shard rebalancing or scaling.
* **Enhance troubleshooting:** With detailed metadata and query execution stages, you can drill down into specific nodes or tasks to pinpoint the root cause of performance issues.

### Key features of Query Insights

1. **Top N queries:** One of the most requested features is the ability to identify the top queries by latency, CPU usage, or memory consumption. This feature allows you to focus on optimizing the queries that have the most significant impact on your system's performance.

> 2. **Detailed query metadata:** Each query record includes essential information such as timestamps, source, involved indexes, node ID, and task-level resource usage. This data is crucial for understanding the context of each query and making informed decisions about optimizations.

Author: ```suggestion
2. **Detailed query metadata:** Each query record includes essential information such as the timestamp, source, involved indexes, node ID, and task-level resource usage. This data is crucial for understanding the context of each query and making informed decisions about optimizations.
```
